###On Hygiene

I’m gonna skip around on this blog, writing about what I’m currently energized about or inspired about at the time, rather than try to plot this out in some sort of logical order. 

To that end, I’m going to skip past (for now) how I stopped using smartphones several years ago and adopted the (admittedly problematic) Light Phone II as my daily driver. In a later post I will talk at length about why I did this and about what it’s like to be one of the rare people who willfully rejects the smartphone status quo.

Right now, though I want to talk about what I call “the hygiene argument.”

This is the position that if you’re not enjoying your experience on social media or while using a certain technological device that it is your behavior, your cleanliness, that is the problem – not the problem of the platform itself. 

“Twitter is fine – you just have to follow the right people.” Or that there’s an ideal configuration of alerts and a app installs that makes the iPhone a perfectly harmless tool that everyone should be perfectly comfortable using.

There’s a kind of moral underpinning to this argument that suggests a kind of sloppiness, laziness or unintelligence in people who might have problems with social media, smartphones or whatever technology. 

It’s an argument that supports a status quo that is rapidly narrowing our choice. 

This post was inspired by the comments beneath an article on The Verge about the coming Light Phone III. There’s a faction in there who react to this kind of phone with a strange kind of disdain that find somewhat inexplicable. It feels like a partisan reaction, to be honest. Or at the very least a reaction that from a very narrow perspective – one that hasn’t considered that people experience tech and the Internet in vastly different ways.

To me one of the points of tech, computers and the Internet is that  we no longer have to accept one size fits all solutions. But there’s been a flattening happening over the last twenty years, herding everyone into a series of smaller and smaller boxes. 

One of my wishes is to get to a point where the solution to my problems isn’t the perfect calibration of the same piece of tech that everyone is required to use, but a bespoke piece of tech made specifically for me. Or at the very least one of many pieces of tech that does the job I want in precisely the way I want it done. 

And with that would come the reassurance that it isn’t my moral failing that makes me uncomfortable with Twitter the iPhone or whatever. 
