I picked up a CD copy of Redd Kross' 1993 record Phaseshifter at the Rancho Mirage library bookstore. For a quarter. There are handwritten notes on the back of the CD. Somebody popped the jewelcase open and scribbled with a marker impressions of the songs. 

"too long" 
"when will it end"

The notes are a relic of a time when humans curated music. If you worked at a radio station the mail would be full of promo CDs. The job of the programming department was to wade through these CDs and decide which would go into rotation.
Other recipients of promo CDs included folks in the music industry, such as A&R folks, music critics and music supervisors. But I suspect this person worked in mainstream radio (someplace like KROQ) because of the concern with time. College radio wasn't as concerned with song length. In fact it was college radio who first played bands like Led Zeppelin and mainstreamed the idea that great rock songs (like Layla or Stairway to Heaven) didn't have to be single-length.

# About the Band
Redd Kross punk veterans from Los Angeles, their creds are impeccable but that was hard to know in '93. You had to be there. They were around for the tail end of the first wave of punk in Los Angeles, when bands like X, The Go-Gos, The Runaways and the Germs colored way outside the lines of what punk rock calcified into. Redd Kross played the little-known but hugely influential Desolation Center shows in the middle of the mojave desert (laying the groundwork for Lollapalooza and Coachella). They were among the cohort of young punks that included The Minute Men and The Descendents. But they never got the credit for being there and being great right out the gate.

They didn't appear on my limited radar until they hit MTV. By then they were notable for their '70s kitsch. That was a thing in the mid-to-early '90s. Dazed & Confused, "If I Were A Carpenter," Quentin Tarantino were all putting up the era as hip. Metal lunch boxes from the time were sought after by Gen X. Marilyn Manson, then a local artist in South Florida, accessorized with them and eventually wrote a song about them.

Young people who were into the '70s were a type of person back then. Katie Ball, my first real girfriend, was like that. She was into Bowie and T-Rex. The Partridge Family. She was really into Redd Kross. For years after we dated I carried a sleeveless copy of "Neurotica" I somehow retained after we broke up. I never listened to the record much. I tried connecting with it several times after the face, but it never stuck with me.

My relationship with Katie was one of those relationships that would have ended, unrevisited if not for Facebook -- which allowed us to reconnect years later, with new lives and new maturity. I was able to see her happily married. Then watch as she fought and eventually die to a brain tumor. Now the band Redd Kross and my memory of Katie are now inextricable.

They were two things I wasn't ready for at the time. 
